Hi guys, and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to be simplifying our code a bit
and making it a bit more reusable
by creating a client for our API.
Creating API clients is a very common thing to do.
Right now, our application has a lot of knowledge
of how the API works.
For example, it knows that it has to make a request
to this particular ENDPOINT.
It knows that it needs this particular APP_ID.
It knows that it has to access the rates key
in the response and so on.
Now this is all well and good,
and it has to be somewhere in our application
in order for it to work,
but maybe it doesn't belong in our main application.
We can encapsulate it in another file
so that it's easier to use.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna create a new file
that will be a client to this API,
and what that means is
it's going to contain a set of functions
that allows us to very easily interact with this API
without having to know exactly
what endpoint we wanna use and so on.
So what we'll do is we are going to essentially
delete this stuff here,
and we will say that the client
is an OpenExchangeClient,
and we'll pass in the APP_ID.
Then, the gbp_amount will no longer be
the usd_amount multiplied by the exchange_rates.
We no longer have those.
We will say client.convert usd_amount
from USD to, oh sorry,
let's stick two double quotation marks, to GBP.
So what this'll do is we will create this object
of this class, OpenExchangeClient,
and then, it will have a method called convert,
and this method will take in a number,
a currency that it should start from,
and a currency that it should convert to.
Let's go and create a new Python package
that I'm gonna call libs
because this client is a library,
and I'm gonna call this openexchange.
The reason why I'm calling this package libs, by the way,
is because the files inside this package
are files for interacting with other things
that are not part of our application,
and whenever you're interacting with other things
that are not part of your application,
that's usually called a library for something else.
So here, we're defining a library
for the OpenExchangeRates API.
So we're gonna say import requests,
and we will define our
OpenExchangeClient.
The BASE_URL that we're gonna define here is
https://openexchangerates.org/api.
Then, we will define an init method
that takes in an app_id,
and we say self.app_id is app_id,
and then, we will say that
the latest exchanges rates
are the ones that we already requested earlier,
so return requests.get
self.BASE_URL
/latest.json?app_id=
self.app_id
.json.
So we define the latest as being the result
of getting the latest.json,
again, passing in the app_id,
and we'll only get the JSON back,
so we no longer need the response for anything,
so we're just gonna extract the JSON from that
and return it.
Then, we'll define our convert method
that takes in a from_amount,
a from_currency, and a to_currency.
What this says is that the rates are self.latest,
rates, like that,
and the to_rate, so the rate that we're interested in,
is the rate of to_currency.
Then, we'll say if the from_currency is USD,
which it's almost always gonna be,
the reason we're extracting this
into a separate if statement
is because the base rate of the latest is always USD,
so we'll just say return from_amount times to_rate.
We'll leave it as this just for a moment
while we continue with our app,
and here, we're gonna make this a property.
The reason for it is because this doesn't take any arguments
and it just makes a return.
It doesn't actually modify the object at all.
So by making it a property,
it's a little bit easier to access and to reason about
knowing that when you use it,
that you cannot pass in any arguments
or do anything with it.
So just by doing a self.latest
and getting the rates of that,
it almost looks like
this is a value stored within the class,
but it is a dynamic value.
Okay, so now that we have this,
as long as we are converting from USD to GBP,
this is gonna work.
So all we have to do is import,
so from_libs.openexchange import_OpenExchangeClient.
Let's run our app,
and you'll see that the value is the same
which is good.
That is exactly what we wanted.
Now if the input currency is not USD,
we'll need to convert into USD first
before converting it into the final currency.
So we'll say from_in_usd is from_amount
but divided by the rate in from_currency.
Normally, when we are performing a currency exchange,
we multiply by the rate in order to give us the base
in the new currency,
but if we wanna go the other way around
where we wanna turn a currency into the base,
we have to divide,
and then, we'll say return from_in_usd
multiplied by rate, just as above.
All right, so now, we can convert from any currency
into any other currency using this method,
which is much simpler because now that we've got that,
you could potentially write unit tests for it.
You could, of course, use it in multiple places
in your application.
You can write documentation for it
so it's a little bit clearer what it does,
and you don't have to have all that code
in just one place in your application.
So if you wanted to convert a thousand Euros to GBP,
do make sure to rename this variable if you do that.
Then you'll see that 1,000 Euros
is GBP 885, basically 886,
and this is here where we encounter the long numbers.
If you want to format a number as two decimal places,
you just have gotta add after the variable name
but within the curly braces :.2f,
and that is gonna limit this to two decimal places,
and you can see that it rounds appropriately,
and then, you get 886.00,
but we're gonna go back into USD just so it's a bit clearer,
and also, all our strings are using USD.
That's it for this video.
We have created a simple client
that gets the data from the API
and then uses it, all within one class,
so that it's much easier to think about,
easier to reuse, and easier to test later on as well.
Thanks for joining me in this video.
I'll see you in the next one.